Okay, I got to be honest. AI is really starting to stress me out like a lot. So much so that I almost quit YouTube
legit. It's been a lot recently. Like you may have seen this article last week. Uh it went viral, 80 million views, and
it's telling us about how all of our jobs are going to disappear. I know we've heard it before, but this one kind of hit
different because everyone was agreeing with it. And I'm not immune to this. Like I wake up, I read this thing and I'm
instantly filled with anxiety. Anyone else? Like I know a lot of you probably are feeling the same way, which is why I'm
making this video. I want to talk about it. Like what's up with our industry right now? &gt;&gt; What is happening to
tech workers is coming for everyone else. &gt;&gt; I've been feeling this way for a long time. And reading this article,
which we'll talk about later, it was like reading my thoughts and what it was saying was nothing new. Like everyone's
already kind of thinking this. It's just that it was put on paper in a way that everyone just kind of noticed and it
became a catalyst for a lot of conversations. So, this video was kind of like, what am I doing in response to all this?
All this AI stuff, all this fear. What should you be doing? What should we be doing? Let's talk about that. I was going
to quit, but then I decided that I'm not going to bury my head in the sand. I don't think you should either. We're going
to own this. That's my attitude now. But why am I making this video now? And why am I in Japan right now? Cuz that's
where I am. Get your coffee ready. So, I'm in Japan for 3 months. It's kind of a sbatical right now because again, I
almost quit YouTube and AI was really stressing me out. The burnout with AI has been hitting me really, really hard.
Everything is moving really fast and it's a little paralyzing and it's honestly why I haven't been publishing as much on
YouTube. I've been kind of like absent and I feel bad about that cuz I I love making videos and I love being involved
with you guys and having community and it sucks. And part of that is I'm thinking what content do I even make anymore?
Is AI replacing everything? Do I still teach Linux? And where do I tell my audience about all this stuff if I don't even
myself have it figured out? So, I left. I just was like, you know, I need to go somewhere. So, I'm in Japan just hoping
to get some separation and clarity for what's happening. I got this quote from that show Ted Lasso. He said, &gt;&gt;
gave me the distance I needed to see what was really going on. &gt;&gt; And that's kind of what I'm doing with this
trip. But, uh, it followed me here. the anxiety, the AI stress, the endless onslaught of AI news. OpenClaw, the Schumer
article, model releases, and the last few weeks have been the most intense I've ever seen. Everyone's freaking out.
Everyone's waking up. Everyone's realizing that AI is kind of a thing and it can actually do stuff. The stress honestly
got so much worse, not better. And I'm here in Okinawa, Japan with my family, and I can't even get peace because I'm so
distracted by AI and I feel like everything's moving so fast and I can't stop or I'll get left behind. And I'm driving
myself crazy. Like I'm talking to AI while shopping at kambinis. I'm voice dictating while exploring caves, reading my
ex feed while eating soba. I can't stop. And it's not that I don't want to. It's like I feel like I can't like I'm going
to lose something. I'll get two left behind. I can't be the only one feeling this way. Like do you guys feel this way? I
feel crazy. Coffee break. And it's honestly the strangest feeling in the world, right? Because I'm honestly so excited
about all of this. It's so fun. There are so many advances every day. so many cool things to play with. If you're a
techie, this is like a drug addiction. Dopamine hit after dopamine hit. And just when I finish playing with one thing,
another thing comes out and it does that same thing better. And the problem is, what makes me so good at tech, just like
the curiosity and the genuine love of technology has become my worst enemy when it comes to AI. I'm constantly
tinkering. It's like a Tik Tok feed of all this new tech stuff to try. It's not healthy. And when I do finally come up
for air to look around after I'm done playing, I see everyone else doing cool stuff and I assume I'm super behind. And
then I start to wonder like what is the future hold for me, for my job, for my audience? Is all the stuff I'm playing
with going to replace what I love doing. It's it's crazy exciting, but insanely overwhelming. So, I want to say this.
It's okay to feel that way. Like, if you're feeling this way, therapy right now. And you know what? It's okay to say you
hate AI. I'm going to say it right now. I kind of hate AI sometimes. It's a textbook love and hate situation. But if I'm
being honest, I was a better technologist, a better creator, a better human without AI. And I'm trying to find that
balance right now because honestly, I want to stop using AI. I'm like, you know what? I'm going to be different. I'm
going to stop using AI all together. But then I'm like, I can't do that. This is the new stuff. This is the new thing.
Change isn't coming. I mean, change is here. But what does that mean? Like, what does change mean? Is that Schumer
article accurate? Are our jobs in danger? The last few weeks have revealed a lot. Let's grab another cup of coffee and
break this down. I'm going to get a refill or at least heat this up. It was getting cold. So, yeah, the last few weeks
have hit different. Here's what happened and why everyone is freaking out, including me. First was Clawbot, Maltbot,
OpenC Claw. This thing released and it's amazing and it revealed to a lot of people what AI can actually do. It's not a
new model or anything. It's just a harness that unlocks a ton of ideas. Now, I am going to have videos coming out on
this. I just didn't make any videos on it because it happened right when I'm having this midlife AI crisis and I'm
trying to go to Japan and chill out. It's like here is the most amazing life-changing tool in the last 5 minutes. Try
it. But it is amazing and it essentially gives us the ability to talk to our AI through any channel, WhatsApp, Telegram,
Discord, Slack, and kind of treat them like employees. It's cool. What's not cool is if you follow anything related to
OpenClaw on X, that's your entire feed. your feed is now OpenClaw and what everyone's doing with it and you feel behind
all the time. So, OpenClaw was cool and terrifying, but then this article came out from Matt Schumer. He's a CEO of some
AI company. It goes crazy viral. I wake up one morning in Japan and I'm like, I hate this. Like, why am I reading this
right now? Couldn't help it. Everyone's posting. Everyone posted it. I got texts about it. And again, this is not new.
Like, we've heard stuff like this before, but this one hit because it resonated with how I think how I was already
feeling. Just stuffing it down. He confessed this. I am no longer needed for the actual technical work of my job. And he
compared this moment to not like a light switch, more like the moment you realize the water has been rising around you
and is now at your chest. I feel that. And he said this too. If your job happens on a screen, then AI is coming for
significant parts of it. The timeline isn't someday. It's already started. Now again, it's not that he's just saying
this stuff and I'm believing it blind. It's that everyone was going, "Yeah, this is true. Retweet. Yes, send this to
your family. warned them. Everyone needs to wake up. This is a wakeup call. Everyone's saying this now. He did end up
kind of walking some things back in an interview. Also, he wrote this with AI, which seems weird. We'll talk about that
later, but it's still heavy stuff. But that wasn't all that happened in the last couple weeks. It's killing me. There
was a UC Berkeley study. 62% of AI workers report burnout, anxiety, decision paralysis by month six. Yeah, I get that.
Or this AI doesn't reduce work, it intensifies it. That Yeah, I feel that. And then there were 30,700 tech layoffs in 6
weeks of 2026. Amazon alone accounted for 16,000. Salesforce cut their force down from 9,000 to 5,000. Entry-level job
postings are down 15 to 25%. That first rung on the ladder is disappearing. The anthropic CEO said 50% of entry-level
white collar jobs eliminated in 1 to 5 years. Industry insiders think he's too conservative. So, if you weren't stressed
out before, I'm sorry, but it's reality. Like, it's what people are saying. Or is it? Cuz here's the thing. Not everyone
agrees with this. And after thinking about it for a while, I actually believe something different. I think something
else is going to happen. Hey, I'm in Japan right now. I've got proof. Japan's up. And I'm sitting on the floor. Now, you
know what's not in Japan? My data center, my racks full of networking equipment and my NAS, my Mac Studio cluster, my
Raspberry Pies, my everything is not here with me. Now, I can't have that. I got to access my stuff all the time from
anywhere. But watch this. With one little button click, boom. It's like I never left home. I can access everything with
Twate, the sponsor of this video. Twate is kind of like VPN, but it's not. VPN is the old way of doing things, and we
don't do things the old way. We do things the new way. This is zero trust network access that allows me to access all my
stuff from anywhere in the world. But just who I say has access. Now, let me tell you a bit about my setup. Can we nerd
out a bit? I'm in good company, right? So, back in my home base, my data center, I actually have two twin gate
connectors. It takes about 3 seconds to install these guys. In fact, if you want to set up Twate, it's free. You get
five free users. All you have to do is install a connector inside your network. And that can be installed on a Raspberry
Pi, laptop, a spare Linux server, doesn't matter. And suddenly, you have access. Now, here's my favorite thing. When I
install that connector, it doesn't instantly allow everyone to access all the stuff when they log into Twinate. No, no,
no, no. It's denied by default. Zero trust. Meaning, when I set up access to my server, first I have to specifically say
we're allowing access to the server. I have to specify who the group the machine. I can specify ports. I can do
timebased access. I can have it expire. I can say if they have a Windows PC without any kind of antivirus, shut them
down. Don't let them in. Now, if you're like me and you love it and tech and you're a home labber, Twing's a no-brainer.
You don't have to abandon your VPN just yet. Put it to the side. Try Twing and then throw your VPN away cuz you'll
you'll see. But if you're a business, Twing just works. And I do use Twate for my business. I use it every single day to
access my stuff through my laptop, through my phone. My OpenClaw agents use it to access my stuff back home. Seriously,
try out Twin. And thank you to Twinate for sponsoring this video and sponsoring a lot of my videos. They've been a long-
term partner for a well, a long time, and I'm proud to have them as a sponsor. So, check that link in the description or
go to this link right here. I have a creepy AI voice say it right now cuz I always forget what it is. ntk.co/winggade in
Japan. Now, back to the video. It's getting dark here. I had to move my light and I spilled coffee everywhere. Anyways,
here we are again. Okay, so before I tell you what I think about AI or where it's going and and what I'm going to do
about it, let's talk about what's real. This article this Matt Schumer guy put out, something big is happening. Is there
any truth to it? A lot of people believe there is because it went viral. Everyone's sharing it. Everyone's agreeing with
it. And I think the reason it went viral is because this article is speaking to a fear that a lot of us have. Not
necessarily truth, fear. And fear goes pretty viral. And that's, you know, when I read this, I'm like, "Oh, yeah. Of
course, I've been having this this thought, this feeling in the pit of my stomach. I know it. It's true. It's there."
And everyone's sharing it. Everyone agrees. But there's another side to it, right? For example, this guy when it went
viral, of course, everyone's like, "Hey, we got to interview you." So, as soon as he was interviewed by CNBC, he started
walking some things back. &gt;&gt; And I want to be very clear about this. The article wasn't meant to scare people in
this way. And if I had known how viral this was going to go, I would have thought about certain parts and rewritten some
of the parts for sure. &gt;&gt; Because it was doom and gloom. It was it was over the top. I think Gary Marcus, NYU
professor, called it weaponized hype. No data supporting flawless AI coding. Hallucination still common. And what's
funny is Schumer used AI to help him write this, which is not very surprising, but when you phrase it as the guy warning
about AI used AI to write the warning, and the fact that he fedit articles he agreed with, then had to interview him and
then produce this thing that scared everyone, it's it's worth thinking about. There's a Fortune article rebuttal. Coding
has compilers and unit tests to verify a law, medicine, finance. Way harder to automate subjective quality. There's also
a historical pattern. Every previous tech revolution overestimated the speed of economic transformation. Every single
one. 95% of organizations see no measurable ROI from AI. Not a guaranteed steamroller. It's chaos. The Yale Budget Lab
said, "Our data suggests AI labor displacement remains largely speculative. Workers and AI exposed jobs has stayed flat
since Chad GBT." Organization friction is also real. Someone has to sign off, retrain staff, change compliance, navigate
liability years, not months. But the reality is that article could come true. Like it could be real. It also couldn't.
The truth is nobody knows. Everyone's just guessing. But here's what I think and this is where I think it lands
differently. I don't care if AI takes our jobs in 2 years or 10 years because there's something happening right now. The
anxiety, the burnout, the feeling like you're always behind that's happening today to me, to you. That's not
speculative. That's real. That's right now. And if you're like me, you kind of live both sides of AI. You see its crazy
power. I'm often just like, "Oh my gosh, I can't believe it can do that." On the other side, I'm also yelling at it and
getting super mad because it does mess up. So, let me tell you where I'm actually at. I'm going to try and sip what's
left of my coffee. So, you may have noticed that I did not make a video on OpenClaw. Many of you were asking about it.
This is like the biggest AI news that's happened in a long time, and I agree. It's pretty transformative what it does,
and I am going to make videos on it coming soon. But when it came out, I tried it. I used it, but I just couldn't make a
video on it. I just couldn't do it. Like, I thought it was cool and I thought it was amazing, but I was tired. There's
too much There's too many things I got to try. There's too many things I'm learning. I just froze. I was paralyzed. And
I hate that. Like, I I I hate AI. I'm saying it right now. I hate it. But I love it. And I think part of it is that I'm
seeing AI take away some things that I genuinely love. Like seeing parts of what we do as IT people just slowly
disappear kind Like I'm not really sure. Like right now as I'm using AI, I know that me knowing how to use Linux and Mac
OS, knowing a bit of coding and hacking and security and networking, that's helping me do a ton of stuff. Otherwise,
this AI would steer me off a cliff. But will that change? I don't think so. I had this thought as I was flying from
Tokyo to Okinawa. It was on a flight that had no Wi-Fi, so I couldn't talk to my AI, so I had to sit there and just use
my brain and think for 3 hours. And it was great, actually. Um, but I had this thought and I'm getting kind of to a
point in the video where I'm just trying to get out raw thoughts and have a conversation with you. You're going to have
to learn AI. Like, we have to learn it. We have to learn how to use it and become good at it, become efficient. And
everyone's going to be using AI. Everybody, every single person. So, when it comes to the job market and what makes you
valuable, it's going to be what you're capable of if the AI fails or if the AI needs guidance. So, think about network
engineering. If the AI goes offline or hiccups or something, you need to know what's going on. you need to be aware and
if you know more than other people who also come to the interview with an AI agent, you're probably going to get the
job. So, right now, learning these skills, learning IT skills is still one of the most valuable things we can do because
it makes us better with AI. So, that was like a little little free tidbit. I'm going to put that to the side here. Let
me know in the comments below if you agree with that or not. But I want to get to this one point here, and that's that
uh I suck at AI, which is kind of funny with my point I just made. I'm not good at it. I'm not good at AI tooling. I'm
not good at creating AI things. And don't get me wrong, like I can set up all this stuff. I can set up AI. I can install
ExoLabs. I can do clustering. I can train AI models, but doing the actual designing of systems with AI to make it do
really cool things. Building workflows, I feel like an idiot. I feel really dumb. And that's because I see people who do
it well. Like Daniel Mesler, I'll watch him create AI things and I'm just flabbergasted. I'm just thankful that he makes
stuff I can use, but I can never do that. I try to create my own workflows in my business. I try to automate everything
and I'm not good at it. I I feel that. I just want to be honest about that. Like I'm in the trenches right now and I'm
hitting real walls. It kind of sucks. I'm not good at AI, but I love playing with it. That needs to be a t-shirt. So, I
say that to say I don't have this figured out and I want you to know that. I'm the guy with 5 million subscribers on
YouTube and I'm supposed to be this guru, but I don't I don't have it figured out. I'm learning along with you. I'm
figuring things out as they come out. And I think that's um that's okay. I've always tried to be transparent on this
channel about the fact that I'm not an expert. I just happen to love tech so much that I'm persistent with it long
enough to learn it well. Uh and then I can actually talk about it well on YouTube. Like, if I have one skill, it's
teaching. But man, this AI stuff is kicking my butt. But here's what I'm not going to do because I almost did this. I
almost quit. I almost quit YouTube because this beca became overwhelming. It was robbing my joy from a lot of things.
The stress of trying to keep up, the stress of trying to be a person that can teach you about these things and kind of
lead some of you into this. Uh, that became a lot. But I'm not going to quit. And I'm not going to pretend I know it
all. I'm just going to come on this camera and make videos. But I'm also not going to pretend that I'm an expert
anymore. I'm not going to quit. And I'm not going to pretend So, here's what I am changing for this channel for this
year. This is kind of my first moment addressing you uh here in 2026, which by the way, I don't do enough. I've missed
talking with you guys like this. I should do more live streams. But here's what I'm doing with this channel. And I'm
going to be as real and as specific as I can so it doesn't sound like some kind of motivational nonsense. And let me
kind of like backtrack a bit. So, I've been doing this channel in a certain way for a while now. I've been like, "Hey,
you need to learn this right now." Which has become a joke because everything is so crazy now. You need to learn
everything right now so often. and I'd show you the tool and tell you, "Hey, learn it. Use it immediately or or you'll
get left behind. I'm done doing that for now." Not because all this new stuff isn't important and you should probably
learn it right now in some form or fashion. But that's more of like I know what I'm talking about right now. I I'm just
learning with you. That was kind of me pretending I have all the answers. I don't right now. I don't think anybody does.
So, I'm just going to come on the camera and say, "Look at this thing I found. I'm learning how to use it. Let's figure
it out together. I don't know how it all works. I don't know how it's going to affect your job, but it's really cool.
Let's learn it together. Let's not get left behind together. One of those things I'm going to do is an OpenClaw series.
Um, I've been playing with OpenClaw a lot. In fact, as I've come to Japan and I'm doing things remotely, I'm relying a
lot on things like OpenClaw to help me run my business along with my real employees, too. Again, I'm not an expert in
building AI systems, but I think I've come up with some pretty cool stuff I want to show you guys, like real world
scenarios, like an IT department, which I set up over the last few days. It's very cool. But I also want to be honest
about the tools. Like we don't have to love it all the time. We don't have to just be like, "Oh, I AI is the best. AI is
the greatest. I love AI." No. Like, let's talk about how this tool does a lot of stuff, but I hate it. I prefer to do
things myself. Like, we can be honest about that. I like what Vishall Misra from Colombia said. He said, "When the
camera was invented, portrait painters had every reason to panic. The camera didn't kill painting, it liberated it." So,
I mean, I don't know if what we do is art in it. Feels like it sometimes. And Eric Marowit said, "We are not our tools.
We never have been." So, here's my promise to you. I am going to learn this stuff with you. I'm going to be honest with
you when it overwhelms me. When I'm like, ah, I'm not going to be silent. At least I'll try not to be. That's my default
is to go silent when I'm overwhelmed or stressed. And that's when you see our YouTube content become less frequent. I'm
going to tell you when something's cool and then also when something sucks and we're going to figure this stuff out
together. I would love for you to come along this journey with me. And I'm, you know, I'm mainly focusing on people who
are like me. We're technologists. we um we're network engineers or want to become network engineers or we love hacking
and cyber security and all that stuff. I know that's my core audience. That's you. I'm talking to you. And I'm not going
to come at it as like, hey, I'm the AI guru. Follow me. No. Again, we're going to be in the same boat together. We're
learning together. We're just trying to figure out all this stuff and how not to lose our mind and also our soul to AI.
So, this was a weird and different video, I know, but I felt like I needed to get on the camera and talk about this
because it's been something I've been feeling over the past maybe years with how AI has been progressing. I kind of see
or I kind of saw where AI was going. I wasn't quite sure. And then with the last few weeks, I'm like, "Oh, okay. This is
happening really, really fast." And everyone saying it is, not just me thinking it, but everyone's kind of voicing what
I'm thinking. That was a lot. But regardless, we're IT people and we we learn the latest stuff. Like, we we come at it
and we figure out how to use it. And it's not the tools that have ever defined us. I love that quote. It's they never
have been. It's been our curiosity. It's been our tenacity. It's been our love for it, our passion, and we're going to
keep that. We're not going to have our heads in the sand. We're going to be looking up, looking forward. And my phrase
this year, for me personally, with how I'm going to approach most things in my life, including this YouTube channel and
AI and our IT industry, is relentless optimism. No matter what comes, like, dude, it's going to work out. It's going to
be awesome. So, join me in this. Um, if you haven't already, subscribe. Uh, and if you have any ideas for how we can
start working on this together, figuring things out, uh, let me know. Comment below. Also, uh, I'm in Japan, so I'm
definitely going to be making some content around being in Japan. I'm a nerd, so I'm going to gravitate towards nerdy
things, technical things, and I'm just going to nerd out on all kinds of stuff, and I would love to bring you along that
journey with me. Let me know what you want to see in Japan from like a fellow nerd perspective. I would love to hear
that. And keep an eye out for the Open Claw series. I should be talking with the creator of OpenClaw fairly soon.
Anyways, that's all I got, guys. Um, happy 2026. It's a bit belated to say that, but uh, this year's going to be
awesome. That's all I got. I'll catch you guys next time. Hey, you made it to the end of the video. Um, if you're new
here, I like to pray for you, my audience. I believe in the power of prayer. It's okay if you don't. Uh, but I would
love for you to sit here and just let me pray over you. It's going to be weird because Yeah. Uh but I want to do it. And
feel free to click off. That's why I put it at the end of my videos. Let's do this. One, two, three. Pray. Father God,
thank you so much for this moment in time in history where it's a little stressful, a lot stressful, but you're not
surprised by anything. And I ask in your name, God, that you would give all of us right now peace with what's happening
with our industry. That you would give us direction. And that you would turn any stress or anxiety that we're feeling.
That you would turn that into excitement and tenacity and opportunities for growth. And I pray for this person on the
other side of this camera, this screen right now, as they're watching this video, that you would perform a mighty work
in their lives that as they're getting ready to launch their career or they're changing jobs or they're just trying to
maintain the one they have that you would give them great courage and what and where they're at. That you would give
them a fire to keep going. That you would give them a path forward that they can march forward in. I pray this blessing
over them and as they are preparing their lives or trying to maintain the one they have. Just give them what they need.
Bless their families. Bless their livelihoods. Bless their careers. Just bless everything. God, bless this year. Let
their goals they have for this year be met. Go before them and make their path straight. I pray for this community, the
people that we have here. Let us learn and grow together. I pray that with all the stuff with AI that we would uh not
lose our souls in the process that we would find what's uniquely human and valuable and that we'll always maintain that
valuing people over machines and productivity every time. I ask this in your name, Jesus. Amen. All right, guys. I'll
catch youall next time. It's getting dark here.